---
title: SSL Cert Install Troubleshooting
category: troubleshooting
---

# SSL Cert Install Troubleshooting

## SSL Certificate Renewal
**My SSL certificate has or is going to expire and needs to be updated**

**1.**  Obtain your updated SSL certificates from your SSL certificate provider

**2.** [Update your certificates](/compliant-cloud/articles/guides/self-service-SSL/) using the [certs update](/compliant-cloud/cli-reference#certs-update) command in the Datica CLI.

**3.** Redeploy your service proxy for your certificate update to take effect. To [redeploy](/compliant-cloud/cli-reference#redeploy) your service proxy via the CLI use the command `datica -E "<your_env_alias>" redeploy service_proxy`.

## Site and SSL Cert Change

**I have a new domain and SSL certificate for my application**

**1.** [Create a new site](/compliant-cloud/cli-reference#sites-create) for your applicaton using the CLI.

**2.** [Create a new cert](/compliant-cloud/cli-reference#certs-create) for your application.

**3.** Once you have created a new site and uploaded a new cert you must redeploy your service proxy. To [redeploy](/compliant-cloud/cli-reference#redeploy) your service proxy via the CLI use the command `datica -E "<your_env_alias>" redeploy service_proxy`.

**4.** Once you have verified that your new site and cert have been updated, you can remove the old site and cert using the [datica -E "<your_env_alias>" sites rm](/compliant-cloud/cli-reference#sites-rm) and [datica -E "<your_env_alias>" certs rm](/compliant-cloud/cli-reference#certs-rm) CLI commands.

- **Note:** Depending on what kind of environment you have, the ability to redeploy your service proxy may not be enabled. Contact us at [support@datica.com](mailto:support@datica.com). Or open a Zendesk ticket and Datica support will redeploy your service proxy and re-enable service proxy redeploys for your environment.

## Common SSL Questions

- **Question** Does the CSR need to be generated by Datica?
- **Answer** No, you can generate the CSR. Instructions on how to do this can be found [here](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/9446/0/apache-opensslmodsslnginx).
- **Question** Why does my certificate not work for all of my applications?
- **Answer** Depending on the type of certificate you have, you may only be able to register one domain.  If you have a wildcard certificate it will allow you to enable SSL on all of you applications with different subdomains.
